## Description

ComposeUI is a framework for building GUIs.

It provides an abstraction layer for defining views using dataclasses, making it theoretically possible to use with any GUI framework, even web frameworks.

Useful components are available to ease the build of GUIs:
- Stores to manage data generated by the interface using:
    * Python built-in [`dataclasses`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/dataclasses.html) and export into json using [`mashumaro`](https://github.com/Fatal1ty/mashumaro) library.
    * [`msgspec`](https://github.com/jcrist/msgspec) for the model and to export into json.
    * [`pydantic`](https://github.com/pydantic/pydantic) for the model and to export into json.
    * SQLite via Python's built-in [`sqlite3`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/sqlite3.html) library.
    * [`SQLAlchemy`](https://github.com/sqlalchemy/sqlalchemy) for ORM-based storage in an SQLite database.
- Simplify form creation using various field types such as text, float, and integer inputs; checkboxes; spinboxes; large text inputs; radio buttons; file selectors; etc...
- TableView and TreeView: Easily create tables or trees with features like:
    * Add/remove row buttons
    * Import/Export in CSV, Excel, and JSON formats
    * Copy/Paste (Ctrl+C/Ctrl+V)
    * Filtering, shortcuts, pagination, and support for specific item fields (combobox, float only fields, ...)
- LinkedTableView: Coordinates two tables for a master-detail display.
- LinkedTableFigureView: Coordinates a table and a figure, highlighting points in the figure when selecting rows in the table.
- SimpleTableView: Display a table by specifying an SQL table name (works only with an SQLite store).
- VTKView: Render 3D scientific data using the VTK library
- FigureView: Plot 2D/3D scientific curves using Matplotlib.


## Requirements

The current version supports building Qt interfaces using PyQt5 or PySide6. It should also work with other versions of PyQt and PySide, as all imports are managed through [qtpy](https://github.com/spyder-ide/qtpy).

## Installation

For PyQt5, use the `standard` extra.

```console
python -m pip install https://github.com/ehmoussi/composeui.git[standard]
```

For PySide6, use the `standard_qt6` extra

```console
python -m pip install https://github.com/ehmoussi/composeui.git[standard_qt6]
```

## Examples

The folder [`src/examples`](src/examples/) contains multiple examples demonstrating how to use the various components available in the library:

* AsyncView: Demonstrates asynchronous programming with PySide6 (note: async support is not available with other Python Qt bindings).
* FigureView: An example of how to plot a 2D figure.
* FormView: Shows a form with two variants, one that updates the model for every modification, and another that updates the model only when the "Apply" button is clicked.
* LinkedTableFigureView: Demonstrates a linked table and figure where selecting a point in the table highlights it in the figure.
* Mainview: Provides an empty interface that can serve as a starting point for new projects.
* MultipleViews: Illustrates how to combine a navigation toolbar with different views, updating the display based on toolbar selections.
* SalomeView: An example of module integration within the Salome platform.
* SimpleTableView: Demonstrates how to create a table using an SQL table.
* TableView/TreeView: An example showcasing both table and tree components.
* VTKView: Provides an interface to import a VTK file and display it using the VTKView component.

## Tests
Tests are located in the tests folder and correspond to the examples provided above. They not only verify the functionality of the library but also serve as examples of how to write tests using ComposeUI.


## Documentation
The documentation will be available soon.
